content/02.introduction.md, before:

## Introduction
 
News coverage of science shapes who both peers and the public consider a scientist and field expert.
This indication of legitimacy can either help recognize persons who are typically overlooked due to systemic biases or intensify biases.
Journalistic biases have been observed by journalists themselves [@https://www.theguardian.com/world/2016/may/25/enduring-whiteness-of-american-journalism; @https://medium.com/ladybits-on-medium/i-analyzed-a-year-of-my-reporting-for-gender-bias-and-this-is-what-i-found-a16c31e1cdf#.44nchdhay; @https://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2016/02/gender-diversity-journalism/463023/; @https://www.theatlantic.com/science/archive/2018/02/i-spent-two-years-trying-to-fix-the-gender-imbalance-in-my-stories/552404/], as well as by independent researchers [@doi:10.1177/0003122415596999; @doi:10.1080/1461670X.2013.834149; @doi:10.1177/0163443711418272; @doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0148434; https://www.poynter.org/reporting-editing/2013/lack-of-female-sources-in-new-york-times-stories-spotlights-need-for-change/; https://wmc.3cdn.net/ae1a5542872fc8810b_5tm62xgrd.pdf; @doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0148434].
Researchers found a gap between male and female speakers or quotes, with independent studies finding that between 17-40% of total subjects were female across multiple news outlets between 1985 and 2010 [@doi:10.1177/0003122415596999; @doi:10.1080/1461670X.2013.834149; @https://whomakesthenews.org/gmmp-2010-reports/].
One study found 27-32% of total subjects in science-related news were female between 1995 and 2010 [@https://whomakesthenews.org/gmmp-2010-reports/].
However, news coverage is not the only source of bias.
Both gender and racial disparities already exist in science as observed in differences in citation [@doi:10.1177/2378023117738903; @doi:10.1038/504211a], funding [@doi:10.1016/j.cell.2021.01.011; @doi:10.1126/sciadv.aaz4868; @doi:10.1126/sciadv.aaw7238; @doi:10.1126/science.1165878], and publication rates [@doi:10.1007/s11192-012-0893-4; @doi:10.1073/pnas.1915378117; @doi:10.1257/pandp.20181111].
 
Therefore, it is crucial to ensure that science coverage does not solely focus on a few well-known scientists but expands our shared view of an expert scientist.
One may believe that science coverage would simply reflect the most current and groundbreaking findings. 
Still, there are many ways gender, racial, or regional biases can unknowingly seep into coverage.
In researching a story, a journalist will typically interview multiple scientists for their opinion, potentially asking for additional sources, allowing individual unconscious biases to skew scientific coverage broadly.
In addition, the repeated selection of a small set of field experts or the approach a journalist takes in establishing a new source may intensify existing biases [@https://www.theopennotebook.com/2016/08/23/including-diverse-voices-in-science-stories/; @https://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2016/02/gender-diversity-journalism/463023/; @https://www.theatlantic.com/science/archive/2018/02/i-spent-two-years-trying-to-fix-the-gender-imbalance-in-my-stories/552404/].
 
While these biases may go unnoticed by an individual, analyzing a large corpus of articles can identify and quantify these biases and help guide institutional and individual self-reflection.
In the same vein as previous media studies, we seek to quantify gender and regional biases of news coverage.
Our study focuses solely on scientific news content, specifically news content published by Nature.
Since Nature also publishes research articles, this provides a natural estimated background rate for comparison.
Our goal is to identify quoted and cited scientists by analyzing the content and citations within all news articles from 2005 to 2020.
We further analyze if the coverage is biased beyond the current state of academic publishing by analyzing the authorship statistics across all Nature research articles across the same period.
 
Through our analysis of 22,094 news-related articles, we were able to identify XX quoted speakers and XX authors of articles cited in the news content.
We then identified possible gender or regional biases using the extracted names.
We used computational methods to predict gender and identified a bias towards male quotes in news articles.
However, during the period that we examine the bias has decreased from being more extreme than in the research content of _Nature_ to less extreme.
Furthermore, we identified that the speaker bias was dependent on article type; the "Career-Feature" column achieved gender parity in quoted speakers.
We also used computational methods to predict name origins and found a significant over-representation of names with Celtic/English origin and under-representation of names with an East Asian origin in both quotes and citations from the name origin predictions.
 
NOTE: perhaps a conclusion to the intro would be good here?

Commit message:

addresses https://github.com/greenelab/nature_news_manuscript/pull/1#discussion_r636826557

content/02.introduction.md, after:

## Introduction
 
News coverage of science shapes who both peers and the public consider a scientist and field expert.
This indication of legitimacy can either help recognize persons who are typically overlooked due to systemic biases or intensify biases.
Journalistic biases have been observed by journalists themselves [@https://www.theguardian.com/world/2016/may/25/enduring-whiteness-of-american-journalism; @https://medium.com/ladybits-on-medium/i-analyzed-a-year-of-my-reporting-for-gender-bias-and-this-is-what-i-found-a16c31e1cdf#.44nchdhay; @https://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2016/02/gender-diversity-journalism/463023/; @https://www.theatlantic.com/science/archive/2018/02/i-spent-two-years-trying-to-fix-the-gender-imbalance-in-my-stories/552404/], as well as by independent researchers [@doi:10.1177/0003122415596999; @doi:10.1080/1461670X.2013.834149; @doi:10.1177/0163443711418272; @doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0148434; https://www.poynter.org/reporting-editing/2013/lack-of-female-sources-in-new-york-times-stories-spotlights-need-for-change/; https://wmc.3cdn.net/ae1a5542872fc8810b_5tm62xgrd.pdf; @doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0148434].
Researchers found a gap between male and female speakers or quotes, with independent studies finding that between 17-40% of total subjects were female across multiple news outlets between 1985 and 2010 [@doi:10.1177/0003122415596999; @doi:10.1080/1461670X.2013.834149; @https://whomakesthenews.org/gmmp-2010-reports/].
One study found 27-32% of total subjects in science-related news were female between 1995 and 2010 [@https://whomakesthenews.org/gmmp-2010-reports/].
However, news coverage is not the only source of bias.
Both gender and racial disparities already exist in science as observed in differences in citation [@doi:10.1177/2378023117738903; @doi:10.1038/504211a], funding [@doi:10.1016/j.cell.2021.01.011; @doi:10.1126/sciadv.aaz4868; @doi:10.1126/sciadv.aaw7238; @doi:10.1126/science.1165878], and publication rates [@doi:10.1007/s11192-012-0893-4; @doi:10.1073/pnas.1915378117; @doi:10.1257/pandp.20181111].
 
Therefore, it is crucial to ensure that science coverage does not solely focus on a few well-known scientists but expands our shared view of an expert scientist.
One may believe that science coverage would simply reflect the most current and groundbreaking findings. 
Still, there are many ways gender, racial, or regional biases can unknowingly seep into coverage.
In researching a story, a journalist will typically interview multiple scientists for their opinion, potentially asking for additional sources, allowing individual unconscious biases to skew scientific coverage broadly.
In addition, the repeated selection of a small set of field experts or the approach a journalist takes in establishing a new source may intensify existing biases [@https://www.theopennotebook.com/2016/08/23/including-diverse-voices-in-science-stories/; @https://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2016/02/gender-diversity-journalism/463023/; @https://www.theatlantic.com/science/archive/2018/02/i-spent-two-years-trying-to-fix-the-gender-imbalance-in-my-stories/552404/].
 
While these biases may go unnoticed by an individual, analyzing a large corpus of articles can identify and quantify these biases and help guide institutional and individual self-reflection.
In the same vein as previous media studies, we seek to quantify gender and regional biases of news coverage.
Our study focuses solely on scientific news content, specifically news content published by Nature.
Since Nature also publishes research articles, this provides a natural estimated background rate for comparison.
Our goal is to identify quoted and cited scientists by analyzing the content and citations within all news articles from 2005 to 2020.
We further analyze if the coverage is biased beyond the current state of academic publishing by analyzing the authorship statistics across all Nature research articles across the same period.
 
Through our analysis of 22,094 news-related articles, we were able to identify XX quoted speakers and XX authors of articles cited in the news content.
We then identified possible gender or regional biases using the extracted names.
We used computational methods to predict gender and identified a bias towards male quotes in news articles.
However, during the period that we examine the bias has decreased from being more extreme than in the research content of _Nature_ to less extreme.
Furthermore, we identified that the speaker bias was dependent on article type; the "Career-Feature" column achieved gender parity in quoted speakers.
We also used computational methods to predict name origins and found a significant over-representation of names with Celtic/English origin and under-representation of names with an East Asian origin in both quotes and citations from the name origin predictions.
 
While we focused on scientific news coverage from Nature, our software can be repurposed to analyze other news text.
We hope that news publishers will welcome bias-audting systems to help identify journalistic blind spots.
However, auditing is only part of the solution; journalists and source recommenders must also change their source gathering patterns.
To help change these patterns, there exist guides [@https://www.theopennotebook.com/2016/08/23/including-diverse-voices-in-science-stories/], databases [@https://gage.500womenscientists.org/, @https://www.womensmediacenter.com/shesource/], and affinity groups [@https://www.theopennotebook.com/2016/08/23/including-diverse-voices-in-science-stories/] that can help us all expand our vision of who can be a field expert.
