## Results

![
**Data and Processing Pipeline Overview**
Panel A, left, depicts an example news article and the type of data extracted from the text.
Orange highlighted text depicts all named entities identified as either an organization, country, state, or province by the coreNLP pipeline.
The coreNLP pipeline also extracts all quotes and associated speakers.
A custom script described in section [Methods] identifies all citations.
Panel A, right, charts the analyses done on the extracted names and locations from news articles and papers published by _Nature_.
Panel B shows the types and amounts of articles that we have used for analyses.
](https://github.com/nrosed/nature_news_disparities/raw/main/figure_notebooks/tmp_files/fig1_tmp/fig1_main.png "Figure 1"){#fig:fig1 width=6in}



### Creation of an Annotated News Dataset

We have analyzed the text and citations of 22,001 news-related articles hosted on "www.nature.com" that span 15 years from 2005 to 2020.
Our primary focus is on 16,080 articles written by journalists which include the following five article types: "Career Feature", "News", "News Feature", "Technology Feature", and "Toolbox".
"Career Feature" generally focuses on the career-related aspects of being a scientist.
"News" and "News Feature" focuses on current events related to science as well as new scientific findings.
It should be noted that the types of articles contained in "News" changed over time which may induce content shifts in a subset of the articles within our corpus.
"Technology Feature" also covers current events and scientific findings, but additionally focuses on how science intersects with technology, such as apps, methodologies, tools, and practices.
Lastly, "Toolbox" is similar to "Technology Feature", but is more centered on technology, especially the tools used to perform science.
We also include one analysis of the scientist-written news articles, "Career Column" and "News and Views", as an additional set of 5,921 articles.
"Career Column" is similar to "Career Feature", except it is not written by journalists, but individuals in the scientific field.  
"News and Views" is similar to a review article, where a field expert writes an article relating to a recently written article within Nature.

The text and citations were then uniformly processed as depicted in Figure {@fig:fig1}a to identify: 1) mentioned locations or organizations (light orange box), 2) quotes and quoted speakers (blue box), and 3) cited authors (green box).
The extracted names from the text were used to generate three data types for downstream processing: quoted, mentioned, and cited people.
A summary of frequencies for each data type at each point of processing is provided in Tables {@tbl:table1} - {@tbl:table4}.
We scraped the text using the web-crawling framework Scrapy [@https://scrapy.org/], processed, and ran it through the coreNLP pipeline ([Methods]).
To identify country mentions, we used the following named entities as possible mentions: "organizations", "countries", "states or provinces".
We then mapped the named entity to a country prediction using OpenStreetMap [@https://www.openstreetmap.org].
To identify quotes and speakers, we used the coreNLP quote extraction and attribution annotator.
We performed multiple name formatting processes ([Methods]) to identify the speaker’s full name for gender and name origin prediction.
We scraped the citations using an independent scraper to the text scraper.
All identified DOI's were queried using the _Springer Nature_ API to attain all authors' names, positions, and affiliations, however last authors were used as the primary comparator.

Next, we determined if the quoted speakers, mentioned countries, and cited authors in news articles have a similar demographic makeup as the scientists who publish their primary research in _Nature_.
To make this determination, we used all authors' names, positions, and affiliations of papers published by _Nature_ over the same time period (Figure {@fig:fig1}a, dark orange box).
Again, last authors were used as the primary comparator.
The author metadata of _Nature_ papers from 2005 to 2020 totaled 13,414.
To more broadly represent overall science authorship, we also separately analyzed 36,000 randomly selected _Springer Nature_-published papers from English-language journals over the same time.
It should be noted that extracted quotes may come from multiple types of people, such as academic scientists, clinicians, the broader scientific community, politicians, and more.
However, through anecdotal observation we believe that most sources come from either academic scientists or those actively involved in science.
The extracted author affiliations from both data sources were mapped to a country using OpenStreetMap.
Similarly, author names were uniformly processed and then used to predict both gender and name origin.

The top three observed article frequencies are "Research" (including "Letters" and "Articles"), "News", and "News Feature".
Since _Nature_ merged "Letters" and "Research" papers in 2019, we combined them in our analysis.
We observed substantial variability in the number of _Nature_ news articles by type between 2005 and 2020 (Figure {@fig:fig1}b).
The changing classification of article types may explain temporal changes in news articles.
Over time, the frequency of "News" articles decreased; however, more specific news-related article types increased, including the introduction of the new categories "Career Feature", "Toolbox", and "Career Column".


### Quoted Speakers and Primary Research Authors in _Nature_ are More Often Male

![
**Predicted male speakers are overrepresented in quotes, but this depends on the article type.**
Panel A, left, depicts an example of the names extracted from quoted speakers in news articles and authors in papers.
Panel A, right, highlighted the data types and processes used to analyze the predicted gender of extracted names.
Panel B shows an overview of the number of quotes extracted for each article type.
Panel C depicts three trend lines: Purple: Proportion of quotes for an estimated male speaker; Light Blue: Proportion of first author papers from an estimated male author; Dark Blue: Proportion of predicted male last authors.
We observe that the proportion of estimated male quotes is steadily decreasing, most notably from 2017 onward.
This decreasing trend is not due to a change in quotes from the first or last authors, as observed in Panel D.
Panel D shows a consistent but slight shift towards quoting the last author of a cited article than the first author.
Instead, the observed downward trend of male quotes coincides with additional article types introduced in 2017.
Panel E depicts the frequency of quote by article type highlighting an increase in quotes from "Career Feature" articles.
Panel E depicts that the quotes obtained in this article type have reached parity.
The colored bands represent a 5th and 95th bootstrap quantiles in all plots, and the point is the mean calculated from 5,000 bootstrap samples.
](https://github.com/nrosed/nature_news_disparities/raw/main/figure_notebooks/tmp_files/fig2_tmp/fig2_main.png "Figure 2"){#fig:fig2 width=6in}


To quantify and compare the gender demographic of quoted people and authors, we analyzed their names.
While we could have analyzed the proportion of unique male speakers, we were interested in measuring the overall participation rates by gender and analyzed the proportion of total quotes, e.g. a single speaker may have more than one quote in an article.
Furthermore, we assume that a majority of quoted speakers are typically involved in scientific research and therefore primary research authors is a comparable demographic.
Figure @fig:fig2 shows an overview of the process and example input data for this analysis: 1) quotes and quoted speakers (blue box), 2) first and last authors' names of papers published by _Nature_ (dark orange box).
These analyses relied upon accurate gender prediction of both authors and speakers.
To predict the gender of the speaker or author, we used the package genderizeR [@doi:10.32614/rj-2016-002], an R package wrapper to access the genderize.io API [@https://genderize.io/] to get binary gender predictions for each identified first name.
We unfortunately cannot identify non-binary gender expression with the tools we used.
Performance of binary prediction was evaluated on a benchmark data set of thirty randomly selected news articles, ten from each of the following years: 2005, 2010, 2015 (Figure {@fig:suppfig1}a).

<!-- CUT WAS SUGGESTED BY ANGELA To identify our binary gender prediction error rate, we created a benchmark data set of thirty randomly selected news articles; ten from each of the following years: 2005, 2010, 2015 .
In these articles, we hand-annotated the quoted speakers and their assumed gender. HOW WAS THIS DONE NEED MORE SPECIFIC
We then compared our hand-annotated gender prediction against the gender prediction after the entire scraping, coreNLP quote annotator, and genderizeR pipeline.
Using our hand-annotated prediction as ground truth, we correctly predicted a total of 42/55 female and 157/162 male names within the benchmark articles.
We found that the gender prediction had an accuracy of 0.914, with a Kappa statistic of 0.767 (Figure {@fig:suppfig1}a).
After establishing a reasonable accuracy for gender prediction, we determined the rate of gendered quotes within articles.
!-->


We first examined the number of quotes identified within each type of news-related article (Figure {@fig:fig2}b), totaling 119,998 quotes with 109,723 of them containing a gender prediction for the speaker.
Quote frequencies vary by article type.
We compared the number of quotes from predicted male people to the number of predicted male first and last authors published in _Nature_.
The total number of authors with a gender prediction were 10,454 first authors and 10,488 last authors.
As denoted by the red line, we found that the predicted genders of authors and source-quotes were far from gender parity (Figure {@fig:fig2}c).
Additionally, we observed a difference in the predicted genders between first and last authors, with the last authors more frequently predicted to be male.

To extend our analysis to primary research authors more broadly, we also examined a random selection of authors from English language journals published by _Springer Nature_ (Figure {@fig:suppfig2}a).
The predicted gender gap between first and last authors was larger in our selection of _Springer Nature_ papers; however, both first and last authors were predicted to be closer to parity than for _Nature_ authors.
Overall, predicted male people were more frequently quoted than predicted female people in _Nature_ news articles and first and last authors in _Nature_ and _Springer Nature_ papers over the same time period. 


The gender proportions of authorship were relatively stable over time for both _Nature_ and _Springer Nature_ papers.
In contrast, we found that the rate of quotes predicted to be from male people noticeably decreased over time.
In 2005, the fraction of quotes predicted to be from male people was 86.87% (5,552/6,391) whereas in 2020 it was 68.5% (3,494/5,098).
Indeed, the fraction of quotes from predicted male people was initially higher than the fraction of predicted male last authors, then slowly decreased until it was below the predicted male first and last authorship rates in 2020.
We explored the possible reasons for this decrease.
First, we looked at the authorship position of speakers who were quoted about their published paper (Figure {@fig:fig2}d).
We identified 8,064 quotes with an associated citation (3,382 first author and 4,682 last author quotes).
We found that quotes trend slightly towards last authors from 2005 to 2020, but because the fraction of predicted male last authors remained stable over time both for _Nature_ and the selection of _Springer Nature_ papers, which likely does not explain the downward trend.
We then analyzed the breakdown of gender predicted quotes by article type.
Interestingly, one article type, "Career Feature", achieved gender parity in its quotes (Figure {@fig:fig2}e and Figure {@fig:suppfig2}b).
In this article type, we identified a total of 1,454 quotes (759 predicted female and 695 predicted male quotes), which substantially pulled the overall quote gender ratio closer to parity from 2018 onward.


### Predicted Celtic English Name Origins are over-enriched in cited and quoted people, while predicted East Asian name origins are under-enriched

![
**Analysis of Quotes and Citations found Over-representation of Celtic/English and under-representation of East Asian predicted name origins.**
Panel A, left, depicts an example of the names extracted from quoted speakers and citations found within news articles and authors in papers.
Panel A, right, highlights the data types and processes used to analyze the predicted origin of extracted names. Panels B and C depict a comparison between the predicted name origins of last authors in _Nature_ and cited papers in the news.
Panel B and C differ in the news article types.
Panel B calculates the predicted name origin proportion using only journalist-written articles, whereas Panel C only uses scientist-written articles.
Similarly, Panels D and E depict two possible trend lines, comparing predicted name origins of either quoted or mentioned people against name origins of last authors of _Nature_ research papers.
<!-- REMOVE CONCLUSION FROM CAPTION We found that Celtic/English name origins are overrepresented in quotes, and to a smaller degree in citations, when compared to name origins of last authors.
Furthermore, East Asian name origins are underrepresented in quotes and citations when compared to name origins of last authors, however it was much particularly for citations of non-journalist-written articles versus journalist-written articles.
Additional information for the cited, quoted, and mentioned people are provided in (Figure {@fig:suppfig3} and {@fig:suppfig4}).
Furthermore, we recapitulate this finding when comparing against an additional background of _Springer Nature_ published last authors (Figure {@fig:suppfig3}) -->.
](https://github.com/nrosed/nature_news_disparities/raw/main/figure_notebooks/tmp_files/fig3_tmp/fig3_main.png "Figure 3"){#fig:fig3 width=6in}


To identify possible disparities with respect to name origin, we again used the extracted names of quoted speakers and last authors published in _Nature_.
In addition, we also identified the last authors of all papers cited by a news article. 
All processed names were then input into Wiki2019-LSTM and assigned one of ten possible name origins ([Methods]).
Figure {@fig:fig3}a shows an overview of the process and example input data for this analysis: 1) quotes and quoted speakers (blue box), 2) names of cited last authors in news articles (green)  3) last authors' names of papers published by _Nature_ (dark orange box).
We divided our analysis into three parts: firstly, quantifying the proportions of predicted name origins of last authors cited in _Nature_ news articles.
Secondly, calculating the proportion of quotes from speakers with a predicted name origin.
Thirdly, calculating the proportion of unique names mentioned within an article with a predicted name origin.
As a comparator set, we again used the last author names in _Nature_ papers for all three analyses.
Additionally, in our supplemental analyses, we compared against the last authorship in a random selection of _Springer Nature_ papers.
We found that the number of quotes and unique names mentioned dramatically outnumbered the number of cited authors in _Nature_ news articles, as well as  last authors within _Nature_ papers (Figure {@fig:suppfig3}a).
Still, since we have more than one hundred observations per time point for each data type, we believe this is sufficient for our analysis.
Minimum and median per data type over all years: _Nature_ papers, (565, 679); _Springer Nature_ papers, (1298, 1684); quotes, (4577, 6194); mentions, (3634, 5002); citations in journalist-written article, (139, 267) citations in a scientist-written article, (503, 660).

In comparing the citation rate of last author name origins in news articles, we decided to additionally analyze scientist-written articles.
Though fewer in number, scientist-written news articles have many citations, making the set sufficient for analysis and providing an opportunity to measure differences in citation patterns between journalists and scientists.
In both journalist- and scientist-written articles, we found that most cited name origins were predicted Celtic/English or European, both with a bootstrapped estimated citation rate between 24.8-43.0% (Figure {@fig:suppfig3}b,c).
East Asian predicted name origins are the third highest proportion of cited names, with a bootstrapped estimated citation rate between 5.7-24.8%.
All other predicted name origins individually account for less than 9% of total cited authors. 

We determined how these distributions compare to the composition of the last authors in _Nature_, by examining the top three most frequent predicted name origins (Figure {@fig:fig3}b,c).
We found a slight over-enrichment for predicted Celtic/English name origins and a small under-enrichment for predicted East Asian name origins in scientist-written and journalist-written news articles when compared to the composition of last authors in _Nature_ (Figure {@fig:fig3}b, c).
Interestingly, the under-enrichment for predicted East Asian name origins in journalist-written articles was only from 2005 to 2009.
Furthermore, we found no substantial difference for European or other predicted name origins (Figure {@fig:suppfig4}a).
However, we did observe that papers in which the last author had European predicted name origins were more highly cited in news articles written by scientists than journalists (Figure {@fig:suppfig4}4b,c).
We also observed the predicted Celtic/English over-enrichment and East Asian under-representation when considering our subset of _Springer Nature_ papers (Figure {@fig:suppfig4}b) for both journalist- and scientist-written news articles.
In contrast to _Nature_, in the _Springer Nature_ set, we see a difference in predicted European name origins, with a growing over-enrichment.
Additionally, we see a difference in predicted Arabic/Turkish/Persian name origins frequencies between cited authors and _Springer Nature_ authors, however the absolute difference is lower than observed for Celtic/English and East Asian predicted name origins.

We then sought to determine whether or not the quoted speaker demographic replicated the cited authors’ over- and under-enrichment patterns.
We found a much stronger Celtic/English over-enrichment, with quotes from those with Celtic/English name origins at a much higher frequency than quotes from those with European name origins (Figure {@fig:suppfig3}d).
Additionally, we also found a much stronger depletion of quotes from people with predicted East Asian name origins (Figure {@fig:suppfig3}b), with never more than 7.9% of quotes even though they constitute between 5.7-24.8% of last authors cited in either journalist- or scientist-written news articles (Figure {@fig:fig3}b,c).
When we again compare against last authorship in _Nature_, we observe patterns consistent with the citation analysis with all predicted name origins, except for East Asian and Celtic/English closely matching the predicted name origin rate of last authors in _Nature_ (Figure {@fig:fig3}d). 

Similarly, we find the same patterns in quoted speakers with East Asian, Celtic/English, and Arabic/Turkish/Persian predicted name origins when comparing against the _Springer Nature_ set of last authors as we did in the previous citation analysis (Figure {@fig:suppfig4}d).
In addition, we find an under-enrichment of predicted Hispanic, South Asian, and Hebrew name origins when comparing against the predicted name origin rate of last authors in our _Springer Nature_ set.

Since many journalists use additional sources that are not directly quoted, we also also analyzed likely paraphrased speakers, e.g. a case in which the person was a source and mentioned in the story but not directly quoted.
To do this, we identified all unique names that appeared in an article, which we term _mentions_.
We found the same pattern of over-enrichment for predicted Celtic/English name origins and under-enrichment for East Asian name origins when comparing against both _Nature_ and _Springer Nature_ last authorships (Figure {@fig:fig3}e, Figure {@fig:suppfig3}d,e, Figure {@fig:suppfig4}e,f).


### Content of Science Coverage Differs between Countries

![
**Type of country representation in news articles differ across countries**
Panel A, left, depicts an example of the country mentions extracted from news article text, citations found within news articles, and author affiliations in papers.
Panel A, right, highlights the data types and processes used to analyze the countries cited or mentioned.
Panel B depicts the citation rate of the top ten most-cited countries over time.
Panel C depicts the citation rate of the top three most-cited countries (yellow) compared to that countries citation rate within _Nature_, as measured by author affiliation (grey).
Panel D is a heatmap depicting the yearly difference in citation and mention rate for a specific country.
We only depict countries with a consistent and large difference across all years.
Each cell contains the difference between citation and mention rates, with red denoting the lower difference between mention and citation and green a more considerable difference.
The left annotation bar titled "median_M_C" is the median difference across all observed years.
The "Class" annotation column denotes the binarized set definition of each country, either "Cited" or "Mentioned".
Panel E shows the top 15 words extracted from articles mentioning the countries depicted in Panel D, with the largest proportional frequency between the two defined country sets.
The width of the bar depicts the log10(Frequency in Mentions +1 / Frequency of Citations +1).
](https://github.com/nrosed/nature_news_disparities/raw/main/figure_notebooks/tmp_files/fig4_tmp/fig4_main.png "Figure 4"){#fig:fig4 width=6in}


After finding name origin differences between cited and quoted people in comparison to last authorship rates, we wanted to determine if news articles 1) represent countries at different rates, or 2) vary in the language used to describe scientific content related to each country.
To perform this analysis, we used three sources of information: 1) country-related entities mentioned in the news article text (light orange), 2) country affiliations of cited authors in news articles (green), 3) country affiliation of authors in _Nature_ and _Springer Nature_ (dark orange).
Figure {@fig:fig4}a shows example input data and a schematic of the analysis.
We provide further processing details in [Methods]. 


First, we interrogated the country affiliations of cited authors.
We assigned an affiliation to a paper if any author, not only first or last, has affiliation with a specific country.
Therefore a single paper may have multiple country affiliations.
It was not possible to only identify country affiliations for a specific author position due to limitations in the _Springer Nature_ API.
Affiliation query results from the _Springer Nature_ API return all country affiliations for a specific paper and are not linked to one particular author.
 
After post-processing, we analyzed a total of 1,989 papers with a citation accessible through the _Springer Nature_ API.
We considered all authors, not only first or last, within the article and their affiliations for this analysis.
We found that most cited papers have at least one author with an affiliation within the United States, followed by the United Kingdom, Germany, and France (Figure {@fig:fig4}b).
Interestingly, we found a strong citation over-enrichment of many top-cited countries, but we found no evidence of under-enrichment of countries included in NamePrisms' grouping of countries with East Asian name origins (Figure {@fig:fig4}c, Figure {@fig:suppfig5}a).


Next, we examined content differences between countries or groups of countries.
For example, we wanted to determine the extent to which a country was the subject (i.e., their scientific policies, environment, pollution) or the research being performed within that country was the subject.
To do this, we needed to identify in an article when a country is mentioned and an affiliated author from that country is cited.
Our assumption is that if a country is not cited, but it is talked about, then the topic of the article is related to something happening within that country.
Similarly, if a country is not mentioned, but has an affiliated author that is cited, then the science output from that country is likely to be the subject of the article.
We quantified this by counting all the journalist-written news articles in which a country, region within a country, or organization affiliated with a country was mentioned, which we term a country's "mention rate".
To identify if a country was mentioned in an article, we started with all organizations, countries, states, or provinces identified by coreNLP's named entity tagger.
We then linked all the identified region-related named entities to countries with OpenStreetMap.
Since there may be errors in both coreNLP and OpenStreetMap, we only assumed a country was mentioned when at least two unique entities mapped to the same country in a single article.
On a benchmark set, we found that 4 country identifications from a total of 59 country predictions were incorrect (Figure {@fig:suppfig1}b,c).
When aggregating over articles, we find that 4/30 articles contain exactly one incorrect country mention (Figure {@fig:suppfig1}b)
 
Once we calculated the mention rate and used the previously described citation rate, we identified countries with a consistent skew towards either a higher or lower mention to citation rate (Figure {@fig:fig4}d and Figure {@fig:suppfig4}b).
This is defined as countries where the difference between citation and mention rates is in the top or bottom 5% per year.
This outlier description allowed us to identify two sets of countries based on their citation and mention rates.
Those with a high relative citation to mention rate were: Germany, Spain, Netherlands, Denmark, Sweden, Austria, Switzerland, Israel, and Belgium.
Those with a low relative citation to mention rate were: Russia, Brazil, Colombia, the United States, and India.
We removed all countries that were in both the top or bottom 5% in different years, which excluded Australia, Canada, the United Kingdom, China, France, and Japan from consideration.
 
We then identified content differences between these two sets of countries by analyzing all of the main text from articles that mentioned and did not cite an author affiliated with each of the specified countries.
After properly identifying high-frequency words across the entire corpus, we identified the top 15 most discriminative terms of each country type ([Methods]).
Interestingly, we identified that the words most linked with mentioned countries were mostly related to environmental, extractive or political topics.
The top 5 terms were "dams", "rio", "shuttle", "hydropower", and "weapons" (Figure {@fig:fig4}e, Figure {@fig:suppfig4}c,d).
In contrast, we find that the words most related to countries with a higher citation than mention rate were science or research-related ones.
The top five terms were "classical", "quantum", "yeast", "neurons", and "cells".
 
 
