## Discussion
 

Science journalism is the critical conduit between the academic and public spheres and consequently shapes the public's view of science and scientists.
However, as observed in other forms of recognition in science, biases may shift coverage away from the known demographics within science [@doi:10.1101/2020.04.14.927251, @doi:10.1016/j.cell.2022.01.004].
Ideally, scientific journalism is representative of academic papers.
Though it would be best for news coverage to promote equitable representation, at a minimum, quotes and citations would ideally match the predicted name origin and gender demographics of scientific academia.
To examine this last point, we analyzed 22,001 news articles published in _Nature_, to identify quoted, mentioned, and cited people.
We then compared this to the authorship statistics from _Nature_'s papers and a subset of _Springer Nature_'s English language papers.


We first looked at possible gender differences in quotes and found a large, but decreasing, gender gap when compared to the general population in all but one article type.
Additionally, this result was consistent in articles written by journalists predicted to be women or men.
We found that one column, "Career Feature", has an equal number of quotes from both genders, showing that gender parity is possible in science journalism.
This finding, coupled with the near equal number of articles written by male and female predicted journalists, argues for more diversity in topical coverage. 
"Career Feature" articles highlight current topics relevant to working scientists and frequently highlight systemic issues with the scientific environment.
This column allows space for marginalized people to critique the current state of affairs in science or share their personal stories.
This type of content encourages the journalist to seek out a diverse set of primary sources.
Including more content that is not primarily focused on recent publications, but all topics surrounding the practice of science, can serve as an additional tool to rapidly achieve gender parity in journalistic recognition.


When considering the relative proportion of authors and speakers predicted to be men, we only find a slight over-representation of men. This overrepresentation is dependent on the authorship position and the year.
Before 2010, quotes predicted as from men are overrepresented in comparison to both first and last authors, but between 2010 and 2017 quotes predicted from men are only overrepresented in comparison for first authors.
In 2020, we find a slight over-representation of female quotes relative to first and last authors, but still severely under-represented when considering the general population.
The choice of comparison between first and last authors can reveal different aspects of the current state of academia.
While this does not hold in all scientific fields, first authors are typically early career scientists and last authors are more senior scientists.
It has also been shown that early career scientists tend to be more diverse than senior scientists [@doi:10.7554/eLife.60829; @doi:10.1096/fj.201800639].
Since we find that quotes are only slightly more likely to come from a last author, it is reasonable to compare the relative rate of predicted male quotes to either authorship position.
Comparison with last authorships may reveal more how gender bias currently exists whereas comparison with early career scientists may reveal bias in comparison to a future, more possibly diverse academic environment.
We hope that increased representation and recognition of women in science, even beyond what is observed in authorship, can increase the amount of female first and last authors such that it better reflects the general population.


<!--Furthermore, we hope that increased representation and recognition of women in science, even beyond what is observed in authorship, can increase the amount of female first and last authors such that it better reflects the general population.
In order to draw these conclusions, we analyzed the proportion of all identified quotes that were from a speaker predicted to be male compared to the proportion of first and last authors in _Nature_ predicted to be male, which similarly is a measure of scientific participation.
Using computational methods, we performed quote association and gender prediction.
We observed a strong skew towards predicted male participation across both quotes within news articles and authorship within _Nature_ and _Springer Nature_ papers.
We also identify a gender differences between first and last authors, as previously shown [@pubmed:30070216; @doi:10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2020.05.020; @doi:10.1016/j.biopsych.2019.02.010]. -->

 To further our analysis of possible coverage disparities, we looked at differences in predicted name origins of quoted and cited authors across all the processed news articles.
Our use of name origins is a proxy for a journalist's or referring scholarly peer’s potential perceptions of the ethnicity of a primary source as signaled by an individual's name.
We do not intend to assign an identity to an individual, but to generate a broad metric to measure possible bias for particular ethnicities during journalists' primary source gathering.
Our findings provide additional support for previous studies that identified under-citation [@doi:10.1101/2020.10.12.336230] and under-recognition [@doi:10.1101/2020.04.14.927251, @doi:10.1016/j.cell.2022.01.004] of East Asian people.
Interestingly, we found under-citation of people with predicted East Asian name origins to be much less pronounced than under-quotation.
We do not believe that the under-quotation is driven by paraphrasing sources, which may occur more frequently with non-native English speakers.
We also found that the disparity observed in quotes and mentions was almost eliminated when only considering people who were additionally cited within the same article.
This suggests that the source of the disparity may lie in the search for additional expert opinions.

Either way, the clear disparity of predicted East Asian researcher quotes and mentions argues for including a broader set of voices when seeking opinions beyond the academic papers being covered in the article.
One solution could be to have region-specific journalists. 
While we were not directly able to examine the regions journalists lived in, this potential strategy is supported by our analysis of journalists with a predicted East Asian name origin.
When considering quotes from people with a predicted East Asian name origin, we found that journalists who themselves have a predicted East Asian name origin include a higher proportion of these quotes than journalists with European or Celtic/English predicted names.
When considering only people who were both quoted and cited, the effect of the predicted name origins of journalists was substantially dampened.
We are unable to identify if this is a geographic bias of the reporters in this analysis, since we do not know the location of the journalist at the time of writing the article.
As a proxy for measuring possible geographical bias of a journalist, we attempted to identify if there was any geographical bias of cited authors.
To do this, we identified the affiliation of each cited author and identified their affiliated country.
Unfortunately, we could not robustly extract a large enough number of cited authors from different countries to make any conclusive statements.
Expanding our work to other science journalism outlets could help identify possible ways in which geographic region, genders, and perceived ethnicity interact and affect scientific visibility of specific groups. 
While we are unable to identify that journalists have a specific geographical bias, having reporters explicitly focused on specific regional sources will broaden coverage of international opinions in science.


In our analysis, we also find that there are more first authors with predicted East Asian name origin than last authors.
This is in contrast to predicted Celtic/English and European name origins.
Furthermore, we see that the amount of first author people with predicted East Asian name origins is increasing at a much faster rate than quotes are increasing.
If this mismatched rate of representation continues, this could lead to an increasingly large erasure of early career scientists with East Asian name origins.
As noted before, focusing on increasing engagement with early career scientists can help to reduce the growing disparity of public visibility of scientists with East Asian name origins.

<!-- This is because our findings of under-enrichment of predicted East Asian name origins was recapitulated when we additionally looked at unique names mentioned within news articles.
Furthermore, we find that scientist-written news articles tend to under-cite people with predicted East Asian name origins more than journalist-written articles.
Our finding of under-quotation of people with predicted East Asian name origin was also recapitulated when we additionally looked at unique names mentioned within news articles.
Overall, we find that most quotes, mentions, and citations are from people with predicted Celtic/English or European name origins, followed by East Asian, with the remaining origins individually making up less than 10% of both citations or quotes.
When considering _Nature_ news articles, all predicted name origins roughly match the expected background rate estimated by _Nature_ last authorship, except Celtic/English (over-representation) and East Asian (under-representation).
When considerng _The Guardian_ articles, we additionally find a under-representation of predicted European names.
We also found this same pattern for both _Nature_ and _The Guardian_ when comparing against our _Springer Nature_ data set. -->
 
<!-- After observing name origin differences, we determined if there was a difference in the frequency or content of coverage across countries.
We first looked at possible citation disparities for cited authors with specific country affiliations, and found that most papers cited by _Nature_ news articles have at least one author affiliated with the United States, United Kingdom, or Germany.
In contrast to the name origins results, the citation rate of Chinese affiliated authors was not significantly depleted.
Interestingly, we find the number of paper citations with authors having affiliations in China is increasing at the same rate as _Springer Nature_ and _Nature_ authorships.
Furthermore, the increased citation and last authorship rates of Chinese affiliated authors is most pronounced in comparison to all other countries within the top ten most cited. 

We then focused on identifying whether the news content about a country focused on the scientific output from that country or the country itself as the scientific subject.
We postulated that a difference in citation and mention rates could indicate the difference in a news article's subject matter.
To achieve this, we identified two sets of countries with a large and consistent difference in their citation and mention rates.
The top "Citation" countries were Sweden, Spain, and the Netherlands.
The top "Mention" countries were the United States, the United Kingdom, and India.
We then found that these two sets of countries were discussed differently.
The resultant words for "Mention" countries were most related to extraction, agriculture and space, suggesting that the country was likely the article's subject.
In contrast, the representative words for "Citation" countries were more diverse in topic, relating to biological, medical, and physics terms.
We hypothesize that the difference in discriminative terms between the two country sets is evidence that the news content may focus more on research of a country as a subject than science that comes out of it.
This hypothesis assumes that no country has a specialization in a scientific topic, which is likely not true.
This does, however, give us an indication that countries differ in their scientific journalism.
-->

Through our comprehensive analysis, we were able to quantify how recognized persons in news journalism vary by name origin and gender, then compare it to scientific publishing background rates.
While we found a significant gender disparity in comparison to the general population, the rate of female representation in scientific news is increasing and outpacing first and last authorships on scientific papers.
Furthermore, we identified a significant reduction of quotes from scientists with a predicted East Asian name origin when compared to paper authorship and a significant but smaller reduction of cited authors with a predicted East Asian name origin in news content.
<!-- Finally, we showed that coverage of specific countries differ in content, with the country's scientific output being put in a more significant focus for some countries than the environmental aspects of other countries. -->


Computational tools enabled us to automatically analyze thousands of articles to identify existing disparities by gender and name origin, but these tools are not without limitations.
Our tools are unable to identify non-binary people and rely on gender predictors that are known to have region-specific biases, with the largest decrease in performance on names of an Asian origin [@doi:10.7717/peerj-cs.156;@doi:10.5195/jmla.2021.1252].
Furthermore, name origin is only a proxy for externally perceived racial or ethnic origins of a source or author and is not as accurate as self-identified race or ethnicity.
Self-identification better captures the lived experience of an individual that computational estimates from a name can not capture. 
This is highlighted in our inability to distinguish between Black and White people from the US by their names.
As the collection of demographic data by publication outlets grows, we believe this will enable a more fine-grained and accurate analysis of disparities in scientific journalism


Previous anecdotal studies from journalists have shown that awareness of their bias can help them to reduce it [@https://medium.com/ladybits-on-medium/i-analyzed-a-year-of-my-reporting-for-gender-bias-and-this-is-what-i-found-a16c31e1cdf; @https://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2016/02/gender-diversity-journalism/463023; @https://www.theatlantic.com/science/archive/2018/02/i-spent-two-years-trying-to-fix-the-gender-imbalance-in-my-stories/552404].
Once a bias is identified an individual can seek resources to help them find and retain diverse sources, such as utilizing international expert databases like gage [@https://gage.500womenscientists.org] and SheSource [@https://www.womensmediacenter.com/shesource].
Additional tips for journalists to achieve and maintain a diverse source pool is described by Christina Selby in the Open Notebook [@https://www.theopennotebook.com/2016/08/23/including-diverse-voices-in-science-stories].

It should also be mentioned that we were only able to analyze the data provided through scraping "www.nature.com".
This is a major limitation, because the only measures that we have of demographics of sources are people who have their name mentioned or research cited within the article.
Journalists do not quote or mention all of the sources that they interviewed or cite all of the papers that they read when researching an article.
For example, a person may not be mentioned or quoted in the article because of length limitations, because they do not want to be named, or if they provide information that is not directly quotable but that still shapes the content of the article.
A more accurate reflection of journalists' sources would be a self-maintained record of people they interview.
Our work examines disparities with respect to recognition within articles, which can be measured by mentions, quotes, or citations of people.

Furthermore, the news articles present on "www.nature.com" are intended for a very specific readership that may not be reflective of more broad scientific news outlets.
In a separate analysis, we took a cursory look into a comparison with _The Guardian_ and found similar disparities in gender and name origin.
However, it is not clear which publications should be used as a comparator for science-related articles in _The Guardian_, and difficult to compare relative rates of representation.
While other science news outlets may not have a direct comparator, it would be useful to take a broad comparison across multiple science news outlets to compare against one another.
Our existing pipeline could be easily applied to other science news outlets and identify if there exists a consistent pattern of disparity regardless of the intended readership.

Another major limitation of our study, is that we only used articles published by _Nature_ or _Springer Nature_ as a comparator.
Not all papers are interesting to the general public and likely to be covered by journalists.
In this work, we assume that the demographics of scientists publishing work that is likely to be covered by journalists matches the demographics of all scientists publishing articles in _Nature_, _Springer Nature_ or other publishers.
Our work could be extended to include additional publishers and pre-print servers.
To reveal more scientific-field-specific biases, analyses could be performed on individual topics versus our aggregate analysis.


Furthermore, many journalists are limited by who responds to their requests for an interview or recommendations from prominent scientists.
Scientists fielding reporter inquiries can also audit themselves to examine the extent to which there are disparities in the sets of experts they recommend. 
<!-- CUT Furthermore, since news coverage is accountable to their readership, it presents the opportunity to represent scientific perspectives that are more diverse than observed in academic publishing. 
Through the use of one measure of source demographics, we have shown that gender parity can be achieved in at least one column type, as observed by the gender parity in quotes from the "Career Features" column.!-->
Journalists and the scientists they interview have a unique opportunity to shape the public and their peers' perspectives on who is a scientific expert.
Their choice of coverage topics and interviewees could help to reduce disparities in the outputs of science-related journalism.
