content/05.discussion.md, before:

## Discussion
 

Scientific journalism is the critical conduit between the academic and public spheres, and consequently shapes the public's view of science and scientists.
However, as observed in other forms of recognition in science, biases may shift coverage away from the known demographics within science [@doi:10.1101/2020.04.14.927251].
Ideally, scientific journalism is representative of academic papers.
Though it would be best for news coverage to promote equitable representation, at a minimum quotes and citations would ideally match the regional and gender demographics of scientific academia.
To examine this last point, we analyzed over 37,000 news articles published in two disparate news outlets, _Nature_ and _The Guardian_, to identify quoted, mentioned, and cited people.
We then compared this to the authorship statistics from _Nature_'s papers and a subset of _Springer Nature_'s English language papers.

We first looked at possible gender differences in quotes and found in both news outlets, a large, but decreasing, gender gap when compared to the broader population in all but one article type.
We found that the decreasing trend in _Nature_ articles was largely driven by the recent introduction of a single column, "Career Feature".
This column has an equal number of quotes from both genders, showing that gender parity is possible in science journalism.
However, we do recognize that different journalistic columns have different purposes or may represent different demographics and be inherently more difficult to reach parity.
In order to draw these conclusions, we analyzed the proportion of all identified quotes that were from a speaker predicted to be male compared to the proportion of first and last authors in _Nature_ predicted to be male, which similarly is a measure of scientific participation.
Using computational methods, we performed quote association and gender prediction.
We observed a strong skew towards predicted male participation across both quotes within news articles and authorship within _Nature_ and _Springer Nature_ papers.
We also identify a gender differences between first and last authors, as previously shown [@pubmed:30070216; @doi:10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2020.05.020; @doi:10.1016/j.biopsych.2019.02.010].
 
To further our analysis of possible coverage disparities, we looked to differences in predicted name origins of quoted and cited last authors across all the processed news articles.
Our findings provide additional support for previous studies that identified under-citation [@doi:10.1101/2020.10.12.336230] and under-recognition [@doi:10.1101/2020.04.14.927251] of East Asian people.
Interestingly, we found under-citation of people with predicted East Asian name origins to be much less pronounced than under-quotation.
We do not believe that the under-quotation is driven by paraphrasing sources, which may occur more frequently with non-native English speakers.
This is because our findings of under-enrichment of predicted East Asian name origins was recapitulated when we additionally looked at unique names mentioned within news articles.
Furthermore, we find that scientist-written news articles tend to under-cite people with predicted East Asian name origins more than journalist-written articles.
Our finding of under-quotation of people with predicted East Asian name origin was also recapitulated when we additionally looked at unique names mentioned within news articles.
Overall, we find that most quotes, mentions, and citations are from people with predicted Celtic/English or European name origins, followed by East Asian, with the remaining origins individually making up less than 10% of both citations or quotes.
When considering _Nature_ news articles, all predicted name origins roughly match the expected background rate estimated by _Nature_ last authorship, except Celtic/English (over-representation) and East Asian (under-representation).
When considerng _The Guardian_ articles, we additionally find a under-representation of predicted European names.
We also found this same pattern for both _Nature_ and _The Guardian_ when comparing against our _Springer Nature_ data set.
 
After observing name origin differences, we determined if there was a difference in the frequency or content of coverage across countries.
We first looked at possible citation disparities for cited authors with specific country affiliations, and found that most papers cited by _Nature_ news articles have at least one author affiliated with the United States, United Kingdom, or Germany.
In contrast to the name origins results, the citation rate of Chinese affiliated authors was not significantly depleted.
Interestingly, we find the number of paper citations with authors having affiliations in China is increasing at the same rate as _Springer Nature_ and _Nature_ authorships.
Furthermore, the increased citation and last authorship rates of Chinese affiliated authors is most pronounced in comparison to all other countries within the top ten most cited. 

We then focused on identifying whether the news content about a country focused on the scientific output from that country or the country itself as the scientific subject.
We postulated that a difference in citation and mention rates could indicate the difference in a news article's subject matter.
To achieve this, we identified two sets of countries with a large and consistent difference in their citation and mention rates.
The top "Citation" countries were Germany, Spain, and the Netherlands.
The top "Mention" countries were India, the United States, and Colombia.
We then found that these two sets of countries were discussed differently.
The resultant words for "Mention" countries were most related to extraction, agriculture and politics, suggesting that the country was likely the article's subject.
In contrast, the representative words for "Citation" countries were more diverse in topic, relating to biological, medical, and physics terms.
We hypothesize that the difference in discriminative terms between the two country sets is evidence that the news content may focus more on research of a country as a subject than science that comes out of it.
This hypothesis assumes that no country has a specialization in a scientific topic, which is likely not true.
This does, however, give us an indication that countries differ in their scientific journalism.
 
 
Through our comprehensive analysis, we were able to identify how news coverage varies by country, name origin, and gender, and compare it to scientific publishing background rates.
While we found a significant gender disparity, the rate of female representation in scientific news is increasing and outpacing first and last authorships on scientific papers.
Furthermore, we identified a significant depletion of quotes from scientists with a predicted East Asian name origin when compared to paper authorship, and a significant but smaller depletion of cited authors with a predicted East Asian name origin in news content.
Finally, we showed that coverage of specific countries differ in content, with the country's scientific output being put in a more significant focus for some countries than the environmental aspects of other countries.

Previous anecdotal studies from journalists have shown that awareness of their bias can help them to reduce it [@https://medium.com/ladybits-on-medium/i-analyzed-a-year-of-my-reporting-for-gender-bias-and-this-is-what-i-found-a16c31e1cdf; @https://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2016/02/gender-diversity-journalism/463023/; @https://www.theatlantic.com/science/archive/2018/02/i-spent-two-years-trying-to-fix-the-gender-imbalance-in-my-stories/552404/].
Once a bias is identified an individual can seek resources to help them find and retain diverse sources, such as utilizing international expert databases like gage [@https://gage.500womenscientists.org/] and SheSource [@https://www.womensmediacenter.com/shesource/].
Additional tips for journalists to achieve and maintain a diverse source pool is described by Christina Selby in the Open Notebook [@https://www.theopennotebook.com/2016/08/23/including-diverse-voices-in-science-stories/].

It should also be mentioned that we were only able to analyze the data provided through either scraping "www.nature.com" or accessing _The Guardian_ open platform API.
This is a major limitation, because the only measures that we have of demographics of sources are people who have their name mentioned or research cited within the article.
Journalists do not quote or mention all of the sources that they interviewed or cite all of the papers that they read when researching an article.
For example, a person may not be mentioned or quoted in the article because of length limitations, because they do not want to be named, or if they provide information that is not directly quotable but that still shapes the content of the article.
A more accurate reflection of journalists' sources would be a self-maintained record of people they interview.
Our work examines disparities with respect to recognition within articles, which can be measured by mentions, quotes, or citations of people.

Furthermore, many journalists are limited by who responds to their requests for an interview or recommendations from prominent scientists.
Scientists fielding reporter inquiries can also audit themselves to examine the extent to which there are disparities in the sets of experts they recommend. 
<!-- CUT Furthermore, since news coverage is accountable to their readership, it presents the opportunity to represent scientific perspectives that are more diverse than observed in academic publishing. 
Through the use of one measure of source demographics, we have shown that gender parity can be achieved in at least one column type, as observed by the gender parity in quotes from the "Career Features" column.!-->
Journalists and the scientists they interview have a unique opportunity to shape the public and their peers' perspectives on who is a scientific expert.
Their choice of coverage topics and interviewees could help to reduce disparities in the outputs of science-related journalism.

Commit message:

added new text for supplemental analysis with quotes and citations, and journalist info

content/05.discussion.md, after:

## Discussion
 

Scientific journalism is the critical conduit between the academic and public spheres, and consequently shapes the public's view of science and scientists.
However, as observed in other forms of recognition in science, biases may shift coverage away from the known demographics within science [@doi:10.1101/2020.04.14.927251].
Ideally, scientific journalism is representative of academic papers.
Though it would be best for news coverage to promote equitable representation, at a minimum quotes and citations would ideally match the regional and gender demographics of scientific academia.
To examine this last point, we analyzed over 37,000 news articles published in two disparate news outlets, _Nature_ and _The Guardian_, to identify quoted, mentioned, and cited people.
We then compared this to the authorship statistics from _Nature_'s papers and a subset of _Springer Nature_'s English language papers.

We first looked at possible gender differences in quotes and found in both news outlets, a large, but decreasing, gender gap when compared to the broader population in all but one article type.
Additionally, this result was consistent in articles written by both predicted female and male journalists.
We found that the decreasing trend in _Nature_ articles was largely driven by the recent introduction of a single column, "Career Feature".
This column has an equal number of quotes from both genders, showing that gender parity is possible in science journalism.
This suggests that including more content that is not primarily focused on recent publications, but all topics surrounding the practice of science may help to rapidly achieve gender parity in journalistic recognition.
However, we do recognize that different journalistic columns have different purposes or may represent different demographics and be inherently more difficult to reach parity.
In order to draw these conclusions, we analyzed the proportion of all identified quotes that were from a speaker predicted to be male compared to the proportion of first and last authors in _Nature_ predicted to be male, which similarly is a measure of scientific participation.
Using computational methods, we performed quote association and gender prediction.
We observed a strong skew towards predicted male participation across both quotes within news articles and authorship within _Nature_ and _Springer Nature_ papers.
We also identify a gender differences between first and last authors, as previously shown [@pubmed:30070216; @doi:10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2020.05.020; @doi:10.1016/j.biopsych.2019.02.010].
 
To further our analysis of possible coverage disparities, we looked to differences in predicted name origins of quoted and cited last authors across all the processed news articles.
Our findings provide additional support for previous studies that identified under-citation [@doi:10.1101/2020.10.12.336230] and under-recognition [@doi:10.1101/2020.04.14.927251] of East Asian people.
Interestingly, we found under-citation of people with predicted East Asian name origins to be much less pronounced than under-quotation.
We do not believe that the under-quotation is driven by paraphrasing sources, which may occur more frequently with non-native English speakers.
Interestingly, we found that the disparity observed in quotes and mentions, was almost eliminated when only considering people that were additionally cited within the same article.
This suggests that the source of the disparity may lie in finding people to give their expert opinions.
We found that journalists with a predicted East Asian name origin have a higher proportion of predicted East Asian quotes, when not considering citations.
We are unable to identify if this is a geographic bias of the reporters since we do not know the location of the journalist at the time of writing the article.
However, this could suggest that having journalists either focused on specific gegographical regions or co-located with a region of interest could increase geographic diversity in scientific representation.
<!-- This is because our findings of under-enrichment of predicted East Asian name origins was recapitulated when we additionally looked at unique names mentioned within news articles.
Furthermore, we find that scientist-written news articles tend to under-cite people with predicted East Asian name origins more than journalist-written articles.
Our finding of under-quotation of people with predicted East Asian name origin was also recapitulated when we additionally looked at unique names mentioned within news articles.
Overall, we find that most quotes, mentions, and citations are from people with predicted Celtic/English or European name origins, followed by East Asian, with the remaining origins individually making up less than 10% of both citations or quotes.
When considering _Nature_ news articles, all predicted name origins roughly match the expected background rate estimated by _Nature_ last authorship, except Celtic/English (over-representation) and East Asian (under-representation).
When considerng _The Guardian_ articles, we additionally find a under-representation of predicted European names.
We also found this same pattern for both _Nature_ and _The Guardian_ when comparing against our _Springer Nature_ data set. -->
 
After observing name origin differences, we determined if there was a difference in the frequency or content of coverage across countries.
We first looked at possible citation disparities for cited authors with specific country affiliations, and found that most papers cited by _Nature_ news articles have at least one author affiliated with the United States, United Kingdom, or Germany.
In contrast to the name origins results, the citation rate of Chinese affiliated authors was not significantly depleted.
Interestingly, we find the number of paper citations with authors having affiliations in China is increasing at the same rate as _Springer Nature_ and _Nature_ authorships.
Furthermore, the increased citation and last authorship rates of Chinese affiliated authors is most pronounced in comparison to all other countries within the top ten most cited. 

We then focused on identifying whether the news content about a country focused on the scientific output from that country or the country itself as the scientific subject.
We postulated that a difference in citation and mention rates could indicate the difference in a news article's subject matter.
To achieve this, we identified two sets of countries with a large and consistent difference in their citation and mention rates.
The top "Citation" countries were Germany, Spain, and the Netherlands.
The top "Mention" countries were India, the United States, and Colombia.
We then found that these two sets of countries were discussed differently.
The resultant words for "Mention" countries were most related to extraction, agriculture and politics, suggesting that the country was likely the article's subject.
In contrast, the representative words for "Citation" countries were more diverse in topic, relating to biological, medical, and physics terms.
We hypothesize that the difference in discriminative terms between the two country sets is evidence that the news content may focus more on research of a country as a subject than science that comes out of it.
This hypothesis assumes that no country has a specialization in a scientific topic, which is likely not true.
This does, however, give us an indication that countries differ in their scientific journalism.
 
 
Through our comprehensive analysis, we were able to identify how news coverage varies by country, name origin, and gender, and compare it to scientific publishing background rates.
While we found a significant gender disparity, the rate of female representation in scientific news is increasing and outpacing first and last authorships on scientific papers.
Furthermore, we identified a significant depletion of quotes from scientists with a predicted East Asian name origin when compared to paper authorship, and a significant but smaller depletion of cited authors with a predicted East Asian name origin in news content.
Finally, we showed that coverage of specific countries differ in content, with the country's scientific output being put in a more significant focus for some countries than the environmental aspects of other countries.

Previous anecdotal studies from journalists have shown that awareness of their bias can help them to reduce it [@https://medium.com/ladybits-on-medium/i-analyzed-a-year-of-my-reporting-for-gender-bias-and-this-is-what-i-found-a16c31e1cdf; @https://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2016/02/gender-diversity-journalism/463023/; @https://www.theatlantic.com/science/archive/2018/02/i-spent-two-years-trying-to-fix-the-gender-imbalance-in-my-stories/552404/].
Once a bias is identified an individual can seek resources to help them find and retain diverse sources, such as utilizing international expert databases like gage [@https://gage.500womenscientists.org/] and SheSource [@https://www.womensmediacenter.com/shesource/].
Additional tips for journalists to achieve and maintain a diverse source pool is described by Christina Selby in the Open Notebook [@https://www.theopennotebook.com/2016/08/23/including-diverse-voices-in-science-stories/].

It should also be mentioned that we were only able to analyze the data provided through either scraping "www.nature.com" or accessing _The Guardian_ open platform API.
This is a major limitation, because the only measures that we have of demographics of sources are people who have their name mentioned or research cited within the article.
Journalists do not quote or mention all of the sources that they interviewed or cite all of the papers that they read when researching an article.
For example, a person may not be mentioned or quoted in the article because of length limitations, because they do not want to be named, or if they provide information that is not directly quotable but that still shapes the content of the article.
A more accurate reflection of journalists' sources would be a self-maintained record of people they interview.
Our work examines disparities with respect to recognition within articles, which can be measured by mentions, quotes, or citations of people.

Furthermore, many journalists are limited by who responds to their requests for an interview or recommendations from prominent scientists.
Scientists fielding reporter inquiries can also audit themselves to examine the extent to which there are disparities in the sets of experts they recommend. 
<!-- CUT Furthermore, since news coverage is accountable to their readership, it presents the opportunity to represent scientific perspectives that are more diverse than observed in academic publishing. 
Through the use of one measure of source demographics, we have shown that gender parity can be achieved in at least one column type, as observed by the gender parity in quotes from the "Career Features" column.!-->
Journalists and the scientists they interview have a unique opportunity to shape the public and their peers' perspectives on who is a scientific expert.
Their choice of coverage topics and interviewees could help to reduce disparities in the outputs of science-related journalism.
