content/06.resources.md, before:


### Data and Resource availability

This manuscript was written using Manubot [@doi:10.1371/journal.pcbi.1007128] and is available on github: [manuscript repository link](https://github.com/greenelab/nature_news_manuscript). 
All code and metadata is also available on github, [full analysis repository link](https://github.com/greenelab/nature_news_disparities), under a BSD 3-Clause License.
The code to generate all main and supplemental figures are available as R markdown documents within our main analysis github, in the following subfolder: [notebooks](https://github.com/greenelab/nature_news_disparities/tree/main/figure_notebooks).
Due to copyright, we are unable to provide the scraped data used in this analysis.
However, scraping code is available on our main analysis github, in the following subfolder: [scraper](https://github.com/greenelab/nature_news_disparities/tree/main/nature_news_scraper).


### Acknowledgements
<!---
We would like to thank Jeffrey Perkel for spurring this line of research and providing thoughtful feedback throughout the course of this project. 
-->

Commit message:

update with clearer methods, removed scientist-written articles, updated figures, added new supplemental figures

content/06.resources.md, after:


### Data and Resource availability

This manuscript was written using Manubot [@doi:10.1371/journal.pcbi.1007128] and is available on github: [manuscript repository link](https://github.com/greenelab/nature_news_manuscript). 
All code and metadata is also available on github, [full analysis repository link](https://github.com/greenelab/nature_news_disparities), under a BSD 3-Clause License.
The code to generate all main and supplemental figures are available as R markdown documents within our main analysis github, in the following subfolder: [notebooks](https://github.com/greenelab/nature_news_disparities/tree/main/figure_notebooks).
Due to copyright, we are unable to provide the scraped data used in this analysis.
However, scraping code is available on our main analysis github, in the following subfolder: [scraper](https://github.com/greenelab/nature_news_disparities/tree/main/nature_news_scraper).
To ensure reproducability without violating copyright, we provide the word frequencies for each news article and the coreNLP output.
Furthermore, we provide a docker image that can re-run the analysis pipeline using intermediate, pre-processed data and produce all the main and supplemental figures.
To re-run the entire pipeline (including scraping), the docker image contains all necessary packages and code. 
The shell scripts to re-run the entire analysis are provided in the README file in the github repository.


### Acknowledgements

We would like to thank Jeffrey Perkel for asking thoughtful questions that spurred this line of research, and providing feedback and insight into the news-gathering process during the course of this project.
