## Supplement

**Benchmark Data **
Panel A, depicts the performance of gender prediction for pipeline-identified quoted speakers. 
Panel B is a heatmap of the confusion matrix for prediction of a country mentioned within an article within our benchmark dataset. 
Blue coloration indicates correct predictions and red denotes incorrect pedictions.
Off-diagonal estimate indicates a country was erroneously identified as mentioned within an article.
Panels C and D show the estimated versus true frequency of country mentions within our benchmark dataset. 



![
**Male bias is also observed in news quotes when compared against Springer authorship**
Panel A depicts three trend lines: Purple: Proportion of quotes for an estimated male speaker; Yellow: Proportion of first author articles from an estimated male author in Springer; Dark Mustard: Proportion of last author articles from an estimated male author in Springer.
We observe a larger gender difference between first and last authors in Springer articles, however the over male bias is less than observed in Nature research articles.
Panel B depicts the proportion of male quotes broken down by article type.
In all plots the colored bands represent a 95% confidence interval and the point is the median calculated from 5,000 bootstrap samples.
](https://github.com/nrosed/nature_news_disparities/raw/main/figure_notebooks/tmp_files/fig2_tmp/fig2_supp.png "Supplementary Figure 2"){#fig:suppfig2}

![
**Overrepresentation of Celtic/English names and underrepresentation of East Asian names is also found in Springer articles**
Panel A, depicts the number of quotes, citations, or reasearch articles considered in the name origin analysis.
Panels B-D depicts ten plots, each for a possible name origin comparison against a background set.
Panel B and C compare the citation rate against nature (b), or springer (c) last author name origins.
Panel D and E compare the quote rate against nature (d), or springer (e) last author name origins.
](https://github.com/nrosed/nature_news_disparities/raw/main/figure_notebooks/tmp_files/fig3_tmp/fig3_supp.png "Supplementary Figure 3"){#fig:suppfig3}

![
**Analysis of Country representation**
Panel A, depicts the citation rate for the top ten most cited articles by nature news.
Each plot is a comparison between the citation rate (yellow), nature author affiliation (grey), and springer author affiliations (dark mustard).
Panel B depicts the top and bottom 5% of (mention rate - citation rate).
Each point represents a country - year pair.
Blue points are a country that is further considered to be a "Citation" or "Mention" country.
Panel C and D show the overall word frequencies of the 15 words with the largest ratio of frequencies between "Citation" (panel C) and "Mention" (panel D) countries.
](https://github.com/nrosed/nature_news_disparities/raw/main/figure_notebooks/tmp_files/fig4_tmp/fig4_supp.png "Supplementary Figure 4"){#fig:suppfig4}
