content/07.supplement.md, before:

## Supplemental Figures {.page_break_before}

![
**Benchmark Data **
Panel A, depicts the performance of gender prediction for pipeline-identified quoted speakers. 
Panel B is a histogram of the number of articles that were falsely identified to mention a country by our processing pipeline. 
Panels C shows the estimated versus true frequency of country mentions within our benchmark dataset. The red line denotes the x = y line.
](https://github.com/nrosed/nature_news_disparities/raw/main/figure_notebooks/tmp_files/supp_fig1_tmp/supp_fig1.png "Supplementary Figure 1"){#fig:suppfig1 tag="Supplemental 1" width=6in}

![
**Predicted male speakers are overrepresented in news quotes when compared against _Springer Nature_ authorship**
Panel A depicts three trend lines: Purple: Proportion of quotes for an estimated male speaker; Yellow: Proportion of first author articles from an estimated male author in _Springer Nature_; Dark Mustard: Proportion of last author articles from an estimated male author in _Springer Nature_.
We observe a larger gender difference between first and last authors in _Springer Nature_ articles, however the proportion of predicted male speakers is less than observed in _Nature_ research articles.
Panel B depicts the proportion of male quotes broken down by article type.
In all plots the colored bands represent the 5th and 95th bootstrap quantiles and the point is the mean calculated from 5,000 bootstrap samples.
](https://github.com/nrosed/nature_news_disparities/raw/main/figure_notebooks/tmp_files/fig2_tmp/fig2_supp.png "Supplementary Figure 2"){#fig:suppfig2 tag="Supplemental 2" width=6in}

![
**Predicted Celtic/English, and European name origins are the highest cited, quoted, and mentioned**
Panel A, depicts the number of quotes, mentions, citations, or research articles considered in the name origin analysis.
Panels B-E depicts the proportion of a name origin in a given dataset, citations in articles written by journalists or writers, quoted speakers or mentions.
In all plots the colored bands represent the 5th and 95th bootstrap quantiles and the point is the mean calculated from 5,000 bootstrap samples.
](https://github.com/nrosed/nature_news_disparities/raw/main/figure_notebooks/tmp_files/fig3_tmp/fig3_supp.png "Supplementary Figure 3"){#fig:suppfig3 tag="Supplemental 3" width=6in}

![
**Over-representation of predicted Celtic/English and under-representation of East Asian name origins is also found in _Nature_ and _Springer Nature_ articles**
Panels A-F depicts ten plots, each for a possible name origin comparison against a background set.
Panel A, C, and E compare the citation (a), quote (c), or mention (e) rate against _Nature_ last author name origins.
Panel B, D, and F compare the citation (a), quote (c), or mention (e) rate against _Springer Nature_ last author name origins.
Panels A and B additionally partition the citation rates calculated into two sets, journalist-written articles (salmon) and scientist-written articles (mint green).
For C-F, only journalist written articles are considered.
](https://github.com/nrosed/nature_news_disparities/raw/main/figure_notebooks/tmp_files/fig3_tmp/fig3_supp2.png "Supplementary Figure 4"){#fig:suppfig4 tag="Supplemental 4" width=6in}


![
**Analysis of Country representation**
Panel A, depicts the citation rate for the top ten most cited articles by _Nature_ news.
Each plot is a comparison between the citation rate (yellow), _Nature_ author affiliation (grey), and _Springer Nature_ author affiliations (dark mustard).
Panel B depicts the top and bottom 5% of (mention rate - citation rate).
Each point represents a country - year pair.
Blue points are a country that is further considered to be a "Citation" or "Mention" country.
Panel C and D show the overall word frequencies of the 15 words with the largest ratio of frequencies between "Citation" (panel C) and "Mention" (panel D) countries.
](https://github.com/nrosed/nature_news_disparities/raw/main/figure_notebooks/tmp_files/fig4_tmp/fig4_supp.png "Supplementary Figure 5"){#fig:suppfig5 tag="Supplemental 5" width=6in}

| Processing Step            | Frequency|
|---------------------------|---------|
|Total Quotes                |    119998|
|Quotes with a full name or pronoun associated |    110035|
|Quotes with a gender prediction     |    109723|
|Quote with a full name        |    100529|
|Quotes with a name origin prediction       |    100528|
Table: Breakdown of quotes at major processing steps {#tbl:table1}

|Writer of Article                | Total citations| Total  Springer Nature citations| First author citations with a full name| Last author citations with a full name| First author citations with a name origin prediciton| Last author citations with a name origin prediciton|
|:-------------------|---------------:|------------------------:|-------------------------------:|------------------------------:|---------------------------------------:|--------------------------------------:|
|Journalist |           15713|                     5736|                            4405|                           4423|                                    4402|                                   4406|
|Scientist  |           40707|                    14597|                           11151|                          11083|                                   11151|                                  11065|
Table: Breakdown of citations at major processing steps {#tbl:table2}


| Processing Step         | Frequency|
|:------------------------|---------:|
|#  Springer Nature Articles    |     38400|
|# First + last authors with a full name in  Springer Nature Articles  |     54509|
|# First + last authors with a gender prediction in  Springer Nature Articles |     50877|
|# First + last authors with a name origin prediction in  Springer Nature Articles |     54358|
Table: Breakdown of all  Springer Nature articles at major processing steps {#tbl:table3}


| Processing Step       | Frequency|
|:----------------------|---------:|
|# Nature Articles    |     13414|
|# First + last authors with a full name in Nature Articles  |     21765|
|# First + last authors with a gender prediction in Nature Articles |     20942|
|# First + last authors with a name origin prediction in Nature Articles |     21765|
Table: Breakdown of all Nature articles at major processing steps {#tbl:table4}

Commit message:

update with new guardian results

content/07.supplement.md, after:

## Supplemental Figures {.page_break_before}

![
**Benchmark Data **
Panel A, depicts the performance of gender prediction for pipeline-identified quoted speakers. 
Panel B is a histogram of the number of articles that were falsely identified to mention a country by our processing pipeline. 
Panels C shows the estimated versus true frequency of country mentions within our benchmark dataset. The red line denotes the x = y line.
](https://github.com/nrosed/nature_news_disparities/raw/main/figure_notebooks/tmp_files/supp_fig1_tmp/supp_fig1.png "Supplementary Figure 1"){#fig:suppfig1 tag="Supplemental 1" width=6in}

![
**Predicted male speakers are overrepresented in news quotes when compared against _Springer Nature_ authorship**
Panel A depicts three trend lines: Purple: Proportion of _Nature_ quotes for an estimated male speaker; Light Grey: Proportion of _The Guardian_ quotes for an estimated male speaker; Yellow: Proportion of first author articles from an estimated male author in _Springer Nature_; Dark Mustard: Proportion of last author articles from an estimated male author in _Springer Nature_.
We observe a larger gender difference between first and last authors in _Springer Nature_ articles, however the proportion of predicted male speakers is less than observed in _Nature_ research articles.
Panel B depicts the proportion of male quotes broken down by article type.
In all plots the colored bands represent the 5th and 95th bootstrap quantiles and the point is the mean calculated from 5,000 bootstrap samples.
](https://github.com/nrosed/nature_news_disparities/raw/main/figure_notebooks/tmp_files/fig2_tmp/fig2_supp.png "Supplementary Figure 2"){#fig:suppfig2 tag="Supplemental 2" width=6in}

![
**Predicted Celtic/English, and European name origins are the highest cited, quoted, and mentioned**
Panel A, depicts the number of quotes, mentions, citations, or research articles considered in the name origin analysis.
Panels B-E depicts the proportion of a name origin in a given dataset, citations in articles written by journalists or writers, quoted speakers or mentions.
In all plots the colored bands represent the 5th and 95th bootstrap quantiles and the point is the mean calculated from 5,000 bootstrap samples.
](https://github.com/nrosed/nature_news_disparities/raw/main/figure_notebooks/tmp_files/fig3_tmp/fig3_supp.png "Supplementary Figure 3"){#fig:suppfig3 tag="Supplemental 3" width=6in}

![
**Over-representation of predicted Celtic/English and under-representation of East Asian name origins is also found in _Nature_ and _Springer Nature_ articles**
Panels A-F depicts ten plots, each for a possible name origin comparison against a background set.
Panel A, C, and E compare the citation (a), quote (c), or mention (e) rate against _Nature_ last author name origins.
Panel B, D, and F compare the citation (a), quote (c), or mention (e) rate against _Springer Nature_ last author name origins.
Panels A and B additionally partition the citation rates calculated into two sets, journalist-written articles (salmon) and scientist-written articles (mint green).
Only Panels C-F contain information from both _Nature_ and _The Guardian_, since no citations were extracted from _The Guardian_ articles.
For C-F, only journalist written articles are considered.
](https://github.com/nrosed/nature_news_disparities/raw/main/figure_notebooks/tmp_files/fig3_tmp/fig3_supp2.png "Supplementary Figure 4"){#fig:suppfig4 tag="Supplemental 4" width=6in}


![
**Analysis of Country representation**
Panel A, depicts the citation rate for the top ten most cited articles by _Nature_ news.
Each plot is a comparison between the citation rate (yellow), _Nature_ author affiliation (grey), and _Springer Nature_ author affiliations (dark mustard).
Panel B depicts the top and bottom 5% of (mention rate - citation rate).
Each point represents a country - year pair.
Blue points are a country that is further considered to be a "Citation" or "Mention" country.
Panel C and D show the overall word frequencies of the 15 words with the largest ratio of frequencies between "Citation" (panel C) and "Mention" (panel D) countries.
](https://github.com/nrosed/nature_news_disparities/raw/main/figure_notebooks/tmp_files/fig4_tmp/fig4_supp.png "Supplementary Figure 5"){#fig:suppfig5 tag="Supplemental 5" width=6in}

| Processing Step            | Frequency|
|---------------------------|---------|
|Total Quotes                |    201857|
|Quotes with a full name or pronoun associated |    180316|
|Quotes with a gender prediction     |    179967|
|Quote with a full name        |    161066|
|Quotes with a name origin prediction       |    159018|
Table: Breakdown of quotes at major processing steps {#tbl:table1}


|Writer of Article                | Total citations| Total  Springer Nature citations| First author citations with a full name| Last author citations with a full name| First author citations with a name origin prediciton| Last author citations with a name origin prediciton|
|:-------------------|---------------:|------------------------:|-------------------------------:|------------------------------:|---------------------------------------:|--------------------------------------:|
|Journalist |           15713|                     5736|                            4405|                           4423|                                    4402|                                   4406|
|Scientist  |           40707|                    14597|                           11151|                          11083|                                   11151|                                  11065|
Table: Breakdown of citations at major processing steps {#tbl:table2}


| Processing Step         | Frequency|
|:------------------------|---------:|
|#  Springer Nature Articles    |     38400|
|# First + last authors with a full name in  Springer Nature Articles  |     54509|
|# First + last authors with a gender prediction in  Springer Nature Articles |     50877|
|# First + last authors with a name origin prediction in  Springer Nature Articles |     54358|
Table: Breakdown of all  Springer Nature papers at major processing steps {#tbl:table3}


| Processing Step       | Frequency|
|:----------------------|---------:|
|# Nature Articles    |     13414|
|# First + last authors with a full name in Nature Articles  |     21765|
|# First + last authors with a gender prediction in Nature Articles |     20942|
|# First + last authors with a name origin prediction in Nature Articles |     21765|
Table: Breakdown of all Nature papers at major processing steps {#tbl:table4}
